1. Enhancements for Content-Based Filtering
Include Additional Movie Features:

Go beyond genres and incorporate features like movie descriptions, cast, director, or keywords. Using a TF-IDF approach on these fields as well could capture more nuanced similarities.
For example, using movie synopses could make recommendations align more closely with themes or plots, rather than just genre categories.
Use Word Embeddings:

Apply word embeddings (like Word2Vec or BERT) on textual features such as movie titles and descriptions to understand semantic relationships more deeply. This would make it possible to recommend movies with related themes or moods, even if the genres don’t exactly match.
Weighted Genre Matching:

Some genres may have more importance for similarity than others. You could add weights to specific genres based on user feedback or popularity. For instance, if two movies both have the genres Comedy and Animation, but one has a stronger Adventure component, you might adjust the similarity accordingly.
2. Enhancements for Collaborative Filtering
Hybrid Recommendation System:

Combine content-based and collaborative filtering. A hybrid system could offer better recommendations by balancing user preferences with item similarities. For example, if a user likes action movies, you could filter collaborative recommendations to focus on action genres.
Incorporate Implicit Feedback:

Implicit feedback (such as user watch history or clicks) can improve collaborative filtering, especially for users with fewer explicit ratings. You might track implicit data to infer preferences and enrich the training data for your collaborative model.
Neighborhood-Based Collaborative Filtering:

Use K-Nearest Neighbors or other neighborhood-based algorithms on user profiles. By clustering users with similar rating patterns, you could provide recommendations based on the preferences of other users with similar tastes.
3. Model Optimization and Evaluation
Hyperparameter Tuning for SVD:

In your current collaborative filtering algorithm, you can improve performance by tuning SVD hyperparameters (like the number of latent factors). Grid search or cross-validation can help you find the best parameters for accuracy.
Regular Model Updates:

Periodically retrain your model with new ratings data to capture changing user preferences. The recommendation model should adapt to include new movies and user ratings over time.
Evaluate with Precision and Recall:

Beyond accuracy, measuring precision, recall, and F1 score will give you a better picture of recommendation quality. High recall ensures that recommended movies include many the user is likely to watch, while precision ensures they’re relevant.
4. Handling the Cold Start Problem
Use Popularity-Based Recommendations for new users who lack a rating history.
Content-Based Boosting: Recommend movies based on genre or other content features for users with minimal activity.
New Movie Recommendations: For new movies with little to no ratings, you can make recommendations based on popularity or promote similar titles.
Each of these enhancements can improve the recommendations and address common challenges like data sparsity and evolving user preferences. Together, they build a more robust, personalized system that users will find increasingly valuable and engaging.

env LDFLAGS='-L/usr/local/lib -L/usr/local/opt/openssl/lib -L/usr/local/opt/readline/lib' pip install psycopg2

docker run --name devuser -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -d postgres